src/main/webapp/bower_components/plotly.js/README.md, before:

<a href="https://plot.ly/javascript/"><img src="http://images.plot.ly/logo/plotlyjs-logo@2x.png" height="70"></a>

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/plotly.js.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/plotly.js)
[![circle ci](https://circleci.com/gh/plotly/plotly.js.png?&style=shield&circle-token=1f42a03b242bd969756fc3e53ede204af9b507c0)](https://circleci.com/gh/plotly/plotly.js)

Built on top of [d3.js](http://d3js.org/) and [stack.gl](http://stack.gl/),
plotly.js is a high-level, declarative charting library. plotly.js ships with 20
chart types, including 3D charts, statistical graphs, and SVG maps.

## Table of contents

* [Quick start options](#quick-start-options)
* [Modules](#modules)
* [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
* [Documentation](#documentation)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Community](#community)
* [Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB](#clients-for-r-python-node-and-matlab)
* [Creators](#creators)
* [Copyright and license](#copyright-and-license)


## Quick start options

#### Download the latest release
[Latest Release on Github](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/releases/)

and use the plotly.js `dist` file(s). More info [here](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/dist/README.md).

#### Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js.git
```

and use the plotly.js `dist` file(s).

#### Install with `npm`

```bash
npm install plotly.js
```

and require plotly.js using CommonJS as `var Plotly = require('plotly.js');` or use the plotly.js `dist` file(s).

#### Use the plotly.js CDN hosted by Fastly
```html
<!-- Latest compiled and minified plotly.js JavaScript -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.min.js"></script>

<!-- OR use a specific plotly.js release (e.g. version 1.5.0) -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-1.5.0.min.js"></script>

<!-- OR an un-minified version is also available -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.js"></script>
```

and use the `Plotly` object in the window scope.

##### Read the [Getting started page](https://plot.ly/javascript/getting-started/) for more examples.

## Modules

Starting in `v1.15.0`, plotly.js also ships with several _partial_ bundles (more info [here](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/dist/README.md#partial-bundles)).

If you would like to manually pick which plotly.js modules to include, you can create a *custom* bundle by using `plotly.js/lib/core`, and loading only the trace types that you need (e.g. `pie` or `choropleth`). The recommended way to do this is by creating a *bundling file*:

```javascript
// in custom-plotly.js
var Plotly = require('plotly.js/lib/core');

// Load in the trace types for pie, and choropleth
Plotly.register([
    require('plotly.js/lib/pie'),
    require('plotly.js/lib/choropleth')
]);

module.exports = Plotly;
```

Then elsewhere in your code:

```javascript
var Plotly = require('./path/to/custom-plotly');
```

To learn more about the plotly.js module architecture, refer to our [modularizing monolithic JS projects](https://plot.ly/javascript/modularizing-monolithic-javascript-projects/) post.

#### Non-ascii characters

Important: the plotly.js code base contains some non-ascii characters. Therefore, please make sure to set the `charset` attribute to `"utf-8"` in the script tag that imports your plotly.js bundle. For example:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="my-plotly-bundle.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
```


#### Webpack Usage with Modules

Browserify [transforms](https://github.com/substack/browserify-handbook#transforms) are required to build plotly.js, namely, [glslify](https://github.com/stackgl/glslify) to transform WebGL shaders and [cwise](https://github.com/scijs/cwise) to compile component-wise array operations. To make the trace module system work with Webpack, you will need to install [ify-loader](https://github.com/hughsk/ify-loader) and add it to your `webpack.config.json` for your build to correctly bundle plotly.js files.

## Bugs and feature requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the [issues guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#opening-issues).

## Documentation

Official plotly.js documentation is hosted on [plot.ly/javascript](https://plot.ly/javascript).

These pages are generated by the Plotly [documentation repo](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/tree/gh-pages) built with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages.
For more info about contributing to Plotly documentation, please read through [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/blob/source/Contributing.md).

You can also suggest new documentation examples by submitting a [Codepen](http://codepen.io/tag/plotly/) on community.plot.ly with tag [`plotly-js`](http://community.plot.ly/c/plotly-js).

## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Included are directions for opening issues, using plotly.js in your project and notes on development.

## Community

* Follow [@plotlygraphs](https://twitter.com/plotlygraphs) on Twitter for the latest Plotly news.
* Follow [@plotly_js](https://twitter.com/plotly_js) on Twitter for plotly.js release updates.
* Implementation help may be found on community.plot.ly (tagged [`plotly-js`](http://community.plot.ly/c/plotly-js)) or
  on Stack Overflow (tagged [`plotly`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/plotly)).
* Developers should use the keyword `plotly` on packages which modify or add to the functionality of plotly.js when distributing through [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/browse/keyword/plotly).
* Direct developer email support can be purchased through a [Plotly Pro](https://plot.ly/products/cloud/) plan.

## Versioning

This project is maintained under the [Semantic Versioning guidelines](http://semver.org/).

See the [Releases section](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/releases) of our GitHub project for changelogs for each release version of plotly.js.

## Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB

Open-source clients to the plotly.js APIs are available at these links:

|   | GitHub repo | Getting started |
|---|--------|---------|
|**R / RStudio**| [ropensci/plotly](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly) | [plot.ly/r/getting-started](https://plot.ly/r/getting-started) |
|**Python / Pandas / IPython notebook**| [plotly/plotly.py](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py) | [plot.ly/python/getting-started](https://plot.ly/python/getting-started) |
|**MATLAB**| [plotly/matlab-api](https://github.com/plotly/matlab-api) | [plot.ly/matlab/getting-started](https://plot.ly/matlab/getting-started) |
|**node.js / Tonicdev / Jupyter notebook**| [plotly/plotly-notebook-js](https://github.com/plotly/plotly-notebook-js) | |
|**node.js cloud client**| [plotly/plotly-nodejs](https://github.com/plotly/plotly-nodejs) | [plot.ly/nodejs/getting-started](https://plot.ly/nodejs/getting-started) |
|**Julia**| [plotly/Plotly.jl](https://github.com/plotly/Plotly.jl) | [plot.ly/julia/getting-started](https://plot.ly/julia/getting-started) |

plotly.js charts can also be created and saved online for free at [plot.ly/plot](https://plot.ly/plot).

## Creators

|   | Github | Twitter |
|---|--------|---------|
|**Alex C. Johnson**| [@alexcjohnson](https://github.com/alexcjohnson) | |
|**Étienne Tétreault-Pinard**| [@etpinard](https://github.com/etpinard) | [@etpinard](https://twitter.com/etpinard) |
|**Mikola Lysenko**| [@mikolalysenko](https://github.com/mikolalysenko) | [@MikolaLysenko](https://twitter.com/MikolaLysenko) | |
|**Miklós Tusz**| [@mdtusz](https://github.com/mdtusz) | [@mdtusz](https://twitter.com/mdtusz)|
|**Chelsea Douglas**| [@cldougl](https://github.com/cldougl) | |
|**Ben Postlethwaite**| [@bpostlethwaite](https://github.com/bpostlethwaite) | |
|**Chris Parmer**| [@chriddyp](https://github.com/chriddyp) | |
|**Alex Vados**| [@alexander-daniel](https://github.com/alexander-daniel) | |


## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2017 Plotly, Inc.

Code released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/LICENSE).

Docs released under the [Creative Commons license](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/blob/source/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Upgraded js-xlsx, plotly and js-beautify (bower.json) #993

src/main/webapp/bower_components/plotly.js/README.md, after:

<a href="https://plot.ly/javascript/"><img src="http://images.plot.ly/logo/plotlyjs-logo@2x.png" height="70"></a>

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/plotly.js.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/plotly.js)
[![circle ci](https://circleci.com/gh/plotly/plotly.js.png?&style=shield&circle-token=1f42a03b242bd969756fc3e53ede204af9b507c0)](https://circleci.com/gh/plotly/plotly.js)

Built on top of [d3.js](http://d3js.org/) and [stack.gl](http://stack.gl/),
plotly.js is a high-level, declarative charting library. plotly.js ships with 20
chart types, including 3D charts, statistical graphs, and SVG maps.

[Contact us](https://plot.ly/products/consulting-and-oem/) for Plotly.js consulting, dashboard development, application integration, and feature additions.

## Table of contents

* [Quick start options](#quick-start-options)
* [Modules](#modules)
* [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
* [Documentation](#documentation)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Community](#community)
* [Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB](#clients-for-r-python-node-and-matlab)
* [Creators](#creators)
* [Copyright and license](#copyright-and-license)


## Quick start options

#### Download the latest release
[Latest Release on Github](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/releases/)

and use the plotly.js `dist` file(s). More info [here](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/dist/README.md).

#### Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js.git
```

and use the plotly.js `dist` file(s).

#### Install with `npm`

```bash
npm install plotly.js
```

and require plotly.js using CommonJS as `var Plotly = require('plotly.js');` or use the plotly.js `dist` file(s).

#### Use the plotly.js CDN hosted by Fastly
```html
<!-- Latest compiled and minified plotly.js JavaScript -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.min.js"></script>

<!-- OR use a specific plotly.js release (e.g. version 1.5.0) -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-1.5.0.min.js"></script>

<!-- OR an un-minified version is also available -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.js"></script>
```

and use the `Plotly` object in the window scope.

##### Read the [Getting started page](https://plot.ly/javascript/getting-started/) for more examples.

## Modules

Starting in `v1.15.0`, plotly.js also ships with several _partial_ bundles (more info [here](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/dist/README.md#partial-bundles)).

If you would like to manually pick which plotly.js modules to include, you can create a *custom* bundle by using `plotly.js/lib/core`, and loading only the trace types that you need (e.g. `pie` or `choropleth`). The recommended way to do this is by creating a *bundling file*:

```javascript
// in custom-plotly.js
var Plotly = require('plotly.js/lib/core');

// Load in the trace types for pie, and choropleth
Plotly.register([
    require('plotly.js/lib/pie'),
    require('plotly.js/lib/choropleth')
]);

module.exports = Plotly;
```

Then elsewhere in your code:

```javascript
var Plotly = require('./path/to/custom-plotly');
```

To learn more about the plotly.js module architecture, refer to our [modularizing monolithic JS projects](https://plot.ly/javascript/modularizing-monolithic-javascript-projects/) post.

#### Non-ascii characters

Important: the plotly.js code base contains some non-ascii characters. Therefore, please make sure to set the `charset` attribute to `"utf-8"` in the script tag that imports your plotly.js bundle. For example:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="my-plotly-bundle.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
```


#### Webpack Usage with Modules

Browserify [transforms](https://github.com/substack/browserify-handbook#transforms) are required to build plotly.js, namely, [glslify](https://github.com/stackgl/glslify) to transform WebGL shaders and [cwise](https://github.com/scijs/cwise) to compile component-wise array operations. To make the trace module system work with Webpack, you will need to install [ify-loader](https://github.com/hughsk/ify-loader) and add it to your `webpack.config.json` for your build to correctly bundle plotly.js files.

## Bugs and feature requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the [issues guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#opening-issues).

## Documentation

Official plotly.js documentation is hosted on [plot.ly/javascript](https://plot.ly/javascript).

These pages are generated by the Plotly [documentation repo](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/tree/gh-pages) built with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages.
For more info about contributing to Plotly documentation, please read through [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/blob/source/Contributing.md).

You can also suggest new documentation examples by submitting a [Codepen](http://codepen.io/tag/plotly/) on community.plot.ly with tag [`plotly-js`](http://community.plot.ly/c/plotly-js).

## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Included are directions for opening issues, using plotly.js in your project and notes on development.

## Community

* Follow [@plotlygraphs](https://twitter.com/plotlygraphs) on Twitter for the latest Plotly news.
* Follow [@plotly_js](https://twitter.com/plotly_js) on Twitter for plotly.js release updates.
* Implementation help may be found on community.plot.ly (tagged [`plotly-js`](http://community.plot.ly/c/plotly-js)) or
  on Stack Overflow (tagged [`plotly`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/plotly)).
* Developers should use the keyword `plotly` on packages which modify or add to the functionality of plotly.js when distributing through [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/browse/keyword/plotly).
* Direct developer email support can be purchased through a [Plotly Pro](https://plot.ly/products/cloud/) plan.

## Versioning

This project is maintained under the [Semantic Versioning guidelines](http://semver.org/).

See the [Releases section](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/releases) of our GitHub project for changelogs for each release version of plotly.js.

## Clients for R, Python, Node, and MATLAB

Open-source clients to the plotly.js APIs are available at these links:

|   | GitHub repo | Getting started |
|---|--------|---------|
|**R / RStudio**| [ropensci/plotly](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly) | [plot.ly/r/getting-started](https://plot.ly/r/getting-started) |
|**Python / Pandas / IPython notebook**| [plotly/plotly.py](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py) | [plot.ly/python/getting-started](https://plot.ly/python/getting-started) |
|**MATLAB**| [plotly/matlab-api](https://github.com/plotly/matlab-api) | [plot.ly/matlab/getting-started](https://plot.ly/matlab/getting-started) |
|**node.js / Tonicdev / Jupyter notebook**| [plotly/plotly-notebook-js](https://github.com/plotly/plotly-notebook-js) | |
|**node.js cloud client**| [plotly/plotly-nodejs](https://github.com/plotly/plotly-nodejs) | [plot.ly/nodejs/getting-started](https://plot.ly/nodejs/getting-started) |
|**Julia**| [plotly/Plotly.jl](https://github.com/plotly/Plotly.jl) | [plot.ly/julia/getting-started](https://plot.ly/julia/getting-started) |

plotly.js charts can also be created and saved online for free at [plot.ly/plot](https://plot.ly/plot).

## Creators

|   | Github | Twitter |
|---|--------|---------|
|**Alex C. Johnson**| [@alexcjohnson](https://github.com/alexcjohnson) | |
|**Étienne Tétreault-Pinard**| [@etpinard](https://github.com/etpinard) | [@etpinard](https://twitter.com/etpinard) |
|**Mikola Lysenko**| [@mikolalysenko](https://github.com/mikolalysenko) | [@MikolaLysenko](https://twitter.com/MikolaLysenko) | |
|**Miklós Tusz**| [@mdtusz](https://github.com/mdtusz) | [@mdtusz](https://twitter.com/mdtusz)|
|**Chelsea Douglas**| [@cldougl](https://github.com/cldougl) | |
|**Ben Postlethwaite**| [@bpostlethwaite](https://github.com/bpostlethwaite) | |
|**Chris Parmer**| [@chriddyp](https://github.com/chriddyp) | |
|**Alex Vados**| [@alexander-daniel](https://github.com/alexander-daniel) | |


## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2017 Plotly, Inc.

Code released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/blob/master/LICENSE).

Docs released under the [Creative Commons license](https://github.com/plotly/documentation/blob/source/LICENSE).
